Add Bun recipe (#2879)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/recipes/bun.mdx

---
title: Use Bun with Astro
description: Learn how to use Bun with your Astro site.
type: recipe
i18nReady: false
---

[Bun](<https://bun.sh/>) is a newer runtime for JavaScript built for speed. See [Bun's documentation](<https://bun.sh/docs>) for more information.

Using Bun with Astro still is experimental, not all integrations might work as expected. If you find any issues, please open an issue!

## Installing Bun

Installing Bun is a breeze - just run one simple command in your terminal and you're ready to go! Plus, with support for `npx packages, creating a new Astro project with Bun is as easy as pie.

Here's how you can install Bun:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://bun.sh/install | bash
```

## Create a new Astro project with Bun

Bun has support for `npx` packages, which means you can create a new Astro project with Bun in one familiar command:

```bash

> bunx create-astro@latest my-astro-project-using-bun

Author: On Bun it's with a hyphen! (had to check myself to be sure 😅)

<img width="478" alt="Screenshot 2023-03-27 at 09 34 58" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15145918/227872256-88067a71-9146-444d-a3fb-2a7ade2fb2e7.png">

```

:::tip[Tip]
If you want to use a theme, that will work as well!
```bash
bunx create-astro@latest my-astro-project-using-bun --template eliancodes/brutal
```
:::

## Install your dependencies

If you're starting a new project using `bunx create-astro`, you can skip this step, the CLI will automatically use Bun to install dependencies. Otherwise, you'll need to install your dependencies with Bun:

```bash
bun install
```

## Running the development server

> Running the development server with Bun, should feel quite familiar:

Reviewer: Nit: unnecessary comma
```suggestion
Running the development server with Bun should feel quite familiar:
```

```bash
bun run dev
```

:::note[Note]

> Keep in mind that using `bun dev` will not work, as that will start Bun's internal devserver and not your Astro development server.

Reviewer: Typo: `devserver` -> ``dev server`
```suggestion
Keep in mind that using `bun dev` will not work, as that will start Bun's internal dev server and not your Astro development server.
```

:::

## Using Astro integrations

But the best part? Bun makes it simple to integrate with all of your favorite Astro tools. With support for npx packages, you can use any of the Astro integrations with Bun in one familiar command:

```bash
bunx astro add react
```

> This will work exactly the same as if you were using NPM, but with the added benefit of using Bun's blazing fast runtime.
> 
> :::note[Note]
> 1. Some integrations might not work as expected. If you find any issues, please open an issue!
> 2. Keep in mind that using `bun add` will not work, as that will add the package to Bun's dependencies and not your Astro project.
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::note[Note]
Some integrations might not work as expected. If you find any issues, please open an issue on GitHub!
:::
```
Also reminder to link to the appropriate GitHub repo here.

I removed the line about `bun add` because I think it's reasonable to expect people to follow the command as given here. The one about running `dev` is reasonable because a lot of people do use the shorter command, maybe even without thinking about it. And, you're running that command so often compared to adding an integration.

## Building your site with Bun

> And when it's time to build and serve your site, Bun has got you covered with just a few easy commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To build and serve your site, Bun has familiar commands:
```
Sarah has 2% joy in her?

```bash
bun run build
```

> This will output your site to the `dist/` directory, just like it would do with NPM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bun's build command will output your site to the `dist/` directory.
```

> Then, you can serve your site the `preview` command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, you can serve your site using the `preview` command:
```

```bash

> bun run preview

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
bun preview
```

`run` is only necessary when it may conflict with a top-level command

Author: Right! Thanks for your suggestion!

```

> That's all there is to it!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Nope, back down to 0%!
